In the morning Holmes discovered that we had come without our
     spoon-bait for jack, which absolved us from fishing for the day.
     About eleven o'clock we started for a walk, and he obtained leave to
     take the black spaniel with us.

     "This is the place," said he as we came to two high park gates with
     heraldic griffins towering above them. "About midday, Mr. Barnes
     informs me, the old lady takes a drive, and the carriage must slow
     down while the gates are opened. When it comes through, and before it
     gathers speed, I want you, Watson, to stop the coachman with some
     question. Never mind me. I shall stand behind this holly-bush and see
     what I can see."

     It was not a long vigil. Within a quarter of an hour we saw the big
     open yellow barouche coming down the long avenue, with two splendid,
     high-stepping gray carriage horses in the shafts. Holmes crouched
     behind his bush with the dog. I stood unconcernedly swinging a cane
     in the roadway. A keeper ran out and the gates swung open.

     The carriage had slowed to a walk, and I was able to get a good look
     at the occupants. A highly coloured young woman with flaxen hair and
     impudent eyes sat on the left. At her right was an elderly person
     with rounded back and a huddle of shawls about her face and shoulders
     which proclaimed the invalid. When the horses reached the highroad I
     held up my hand with an authoritative gesture, and as the coachman
     pulled up I inquired if Sir Robert was at Shoscombe Old Place.

     At the same moment Holmes stepped out and released the spaniel. With
     a joyous cry it dashed forward to the carriage and sprang upon the
     step. Then in a moment its eager greeting changed to furious rage,
     and it snapped at the black skirt above it.

     "Drive on! Drive on!" shrieked a harsh voice. The coachman lashed the
     horses, and we were left standing in the roadway.

     "Well, Watson, that's done it," said Holmes as he fastened the lead
     to the neck of the excited spaniel. "He thought it was his mistress,
     and he found it was a stranger. Dogs don't make mistakes."

     "But it was the voice of a man!" I cried.

     "Exactly! We have added one card to our hand, Watson, but it needs
     careful playing, all the same."

     My companion seemed to have no further plans for the day, and we did
     actually use our fishing tackle in the mill-stream, with the result
     that we had a dish of trout for our supper. It was only after that
     meal that Holmes showed signs of renewed activity. Once more we found
     ourselves upon the same road as in the morning, which led us to the
     park gates. A tall, dark figure was awaiting us there, who proved to
     be our London acquaintance, Mr. John Mason, the trainer.

     "Good-evening, gentlemen," said he. "I got your note, Mr. Holmes. Sir
     Robert has not returned yet, but I hear that he is expected
     to-night."

     "How far is this crypt from the house?" asked Holmes.

     "A good quarter of a mile."

     "Then I think we can disregard him altogether."